This one's a little bit more
familiar to many of you.
We're gonna talk about useReducer here for
a second.
If you are a Redux dev already, this
is going to feel super familiar to you.
If you're not,
it's going to by the end of this course.
So let's talk about this, so
we have this useReducer example here.
And if you click +,
it will make it more red.
If you click green,
it will make it more green.
If you click blue,
it will make it more blue.
Very, very technical art here.
Best kind of art.
The idea with a store in a Redux
sort of fashion is that you
have a central object that
contains all of your state.
And then the way that you affect that
state is that you pass it an action, and
then it does something based on the
action, and that's how you update state.
So let's take a look at how that works.
So I have RGB, right, red, green,
blue, that's where that's coming from.
And that's going to be my state that
I'm keeping track of here, right?
And then I have a function
here called dispatch,
which allows me to dispatch
action objects to the store.
And then I useReducer function here.
So my reducer I have up here,
which will go over here in just a second.
A reducer function,
all does is it takes in a state,
it takes in an action, and
it returns to the new state, full stop.
So my initial state here is,
you can see it's black, right?
So it's red 0, green 0, blue 0.
And then if someone clicks +r, right?
This got 50 more red, and
that's a number between 0 and 255.
So now it's 100, 150, 200, 250,
255, and
then it doesn't go above that, right?
So the way that works is
every time that I click +r,
you can see down here my event listeners,
It is dispatching a,
Action of type increment r, increment red.
So this object is getting
passed in to the reducer.
So it calls this function here,
my reducer, with the current state, right?
So at the beginning,
let's just kinda diagram it out.
At the beginning, it's r: 0,
g: 0, b: 0, right?
That's the initial state.
So that's what's being
passed in here to state.
And then if I click +r, it's dispatching,
let's just say state,
an action of type INCREMENT_R, right?
So that's what action is.
So then it's gonna do a switch statement.
Many of us have seen switch statements,
it's just a normal JavaScript thing.
I think the only time I use switch
statements is in conjunction with reducers
or Redux.
Otherwise, I'm just lazy and
use if else statements, okay?
So I switch on the action.type.
So here I have INCREMENT_R, so
it's gonna hit this first case, right?
So it's gonna execute here.
And then it's going to return a new state,
so it's an empty object,
that's critical here.
I want you to underscore that fact.
It's critical that it's a new object and
that you're not just
affecting the old state, why?
Because if it's the same object,
Redux or not Redux, in this case,
essentially Redux, who cares?
But the reducer here is gonna say, this
is the same object that I passed to you,
you didn't update anything.
And it doesn't update.
So the way that you signify to
React is like, please go and
update this, you give it a new object.
Cuz it's just doing a shallow triple
equals equality check to see if it's new.
If it's new, it updates.
If it's not new,
it just leaves it the same, okay?
So I pass on the old state and
then I wrote this little
function here that's dumb and
has a bunch of.
So basically, it makes sure that a number
of states between 0 and 255, that's all.
So if this is 300, it will return to 255.
If you ask it to be -50, it return 0,
that's all this does, okay?
And so it adds the step,
the step here I've just have 50, but
you could change this to be 255 and this
would all sudden get very dramatic, right?
So now if I click -, +, -, +, right?
Now, it's going between
all the color seamlessly.
Okay, that's it, that's all a reducer is.
Now you might ask, this seems like
this is useState with extra steps.
That's because it is
useState with extra steps.
Why, why do you care about this?
Well, most bugs are caused by not
accounting for change correctly, right?
Or not handling deltas and
state very well.
You can say basically all bugs
arise from that somewhat.
So the idea behind useReducer is,
let's break this apart and
then make it testable.
That's the core value concept here is now,
this reducer thing,
it's pure, right, and
it has no side effects.
And if you give it the same state and
the same action,
you'll get the same answer
every single time, right?
So if I give it state r: 0, g: 0, b: 0,
and I give it an INCREMENT_R action,
every single time,
I'm going to get back state,
r: 50, g: 0, b: 0, right?
All right,
we'll call this the new state, right?
This is the correct answer
given these two things, right?
If I call this ten trillion times with
these exact same two parameters, I get
the same answer every single time, which
means this is extremely testable, right?
So I can write a unit test to account for
change in my application,
which eliminates most classes of bugs that
you're gonna get in your application.
That's why people really like this.
Now you ask me how often
do I use useReducer?
Almost never, cuz I'm extremely lazy.
But for something like this, where it's
like a kind of a state machine, I mean,
I guess basically everything can
be modeled as a state machine.
But it's like a very
obvious state machine here.
This works extremely well, right?
This is a good use case for it.
But there are people out there that
say I will never use useState ever,
I will only ever useReducer.
Seems extreme to me, but
you can make a use case for it for sure.
Okay, any questions about useReducer?
>> Yeah, I was just gonna say the other
good example I've seen is if you're making
a web-based game.
If you're making a game in React and
you want to track the game state,
then you can have the player's health,
their location within the world.
And then it becomes a really good way
to even just organize all the different
actions that can occur in the game and
track the state.
>> Yep, for sure, at that point, I'd
probably use something thing like XState.
So there is a class I believe on
state machines on Frontend Masters,
right, from Davidkpiano.
XState is awesome,
it basically prevents your app from
getting into impossible states, right?
Which is a problem that,
a game is a good example, right?
You can't both be alive and
dead at the same time.
And so an X state will prevent you
from being in impossible states.
Cuz you have to describe all
of your changes explicitly and
you have to describe your dependent state,
right?
So if you're dead,
then your health is 0, right?
And you can't be dead and
have health of 100, stuff like that, yeah.
>> There is a question around
the object.assign, first argument
being an empty curly brace that's-
>> Yeah, we talked about that.
>> So yeah, to create a new object,
[CROSSTALK].
>> Yeah.
>> Always operating on something fresh and
new.
>> Yeah, I mean,
I'm pretty sure if I just do this where
now the state is gonna be the same state.
And I do this, no, I forked it, well.
If I do this now, it is modifying
the state and that number is different.
So if I click green there,
it actually, now it's red, right,
which doesn't make any sense.
But it's because every time
that I was clicking this,
it was getting the same state back,
is like okay,
you didn't change anything cuz it's not
actually doing any sort of depth analysis.
It's just doing a simple equality check.
But now that I do this, it'll actually
modify every single time now.